DEVDOCS-3854 graphql faceted textual (#1482)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/storefront/graphql/graphql-faceted-textual-search.md

# Storefront GraphQL's Faceted and Textual Search

> BigCommerce storefront search features are available in the Storefront GraphQL API so that storefront API consumers can use BigCommerce's backend search to rebuild their faceted and textual search UI. These built-in capabilities allow Stencil developers to build on top of our search engine, as well as merchants on headless storefronts to access search, sort, and filtering capabilities available from BigCommerce. 

Author: I have added a definition for faceted and textual search

> With Storefront GraphQL's Faceted and Textual Search, you can:

Author: I have updated the line to a introduce the list with a complete sentence.

> - Load category pages with no selections, including the both the facets and products relevant to the search results 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Load category pages with no selections, including both the facets and products relevant to the search results 
```

> Faceted search is a method of helping shoppers navigate a store's product inventory by categorizing products into various categories, brands, product features, and more. Textual search is a method of retrieving products based on product fields, for example, product name and description. BigCommerce's GraphQL Storefront API lets you power your storefront's faceted and textual search with results from our back-end search engine. These built-in capabilities allow Stencil developers to build on top of our search engine, and this API enables merchants on headless storefronts to use BigCommerce's search, sort, and filtering capabilities. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Faceted search is a method of helping shoppers navigate a store's product inventory by categorizing products into various categories, brands, product features, and more. Textual search is a method of retrieving products based on product fields, for example, product name and description. BigCommerce's GraphQL Storefront API lets merchants on headless storefronts use faceted and textual search powered by results from our back-end search engine. These built-in capabilities also allow Stencil developers to build on top of our search engine. 
```
it was unclear which API

- Load category pages with facet selections for specific facets
- Load featured products from specific categories

> - Quicksearch products by using search terms (textual search)

Reviewer 2: Is `quicksearch` a technical term? @bc-andreadao

Author: I didn't mean it in a technical way, maybe quickly search would be better

> - Sort products alphabetically, by newest to oldest, etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sort products alphabetically, from newest to oldest, and more
```

> You can access these features by querying the `SearchProducts` field. Note that you can query facets, filter by rating, or filter by "in-stock" only if the merchant is on a Pro or Enterprise plan. A merchant must [enable Product Filtering](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Product-Filtering-Settings?language=en_US#setup) for facets to be returned. In addition, only facets that a merchant marks as visible in their Product Filtering settings will be returned. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can access these features by querying the `SearchProducts` field. Note that you can query facets, filter by rating, or filter by "in-stock" only if the merchant is on a Pro or Enterprise plan. A merchant must [Enable Product Filtering](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Product-Filtering-Settings?language=en_US#setup) for facets to be returned. In addition, only facets that a merchant marks as visible in their Product Filtering settings will be returned. 
```
I think that this article title cases the other references to KB articles.

This page walks you through how to filter and query products and facets to display on your storefront. See [GraphQL Playground](/graphql-playground) for full schema documentation.  

## How to Filter Products and Facets

To use the Faceted and Textual Search feature, specify a filter in the argument for `SearchProducts`. For Faceted Search, you can filter by price, rating, among other features and attributes of products. For Textual Search, use the `searchTerm` field. 

```GraphQL title=Filters for Products and Facets" lineNumbers
...
  searchProducts(
  filters: {
    searchTerm: "Sample"
    price:{
      minPrice:11,
      maxPrice:200
    },
    rating:{
      minRating:3,
      maxRating:5
    },
    categoryEntityId:24,
    searchSubCategories:false,
    categoryEntityIds:[23],
    brandEntityIds:[35],
    productAttributes:[
      {
        attribute:"Color",
        values:["Black"]
      }
    ],
    isFreeShipping:true,
    isFeatured:true,
    isInStock:true
  }
  ... 
) { 
...
```

> These filters affect **both** the products and facets that are returned. For example, filtering by rating returns only products that are within the specified rating range, as well as only facets that have products within the rating range. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These filters affect **both** the products and facets that are returned. For example, filtering by rating returns only products within the specified rating range and only facets that have products within the rating range.
```
Suggestion to make this a bit more concise

See [GraphQL Playground](/graphql-playground) for descriptions of each filter. 

> ## How to Get Products

Author: I have changed it in a PR that will merge into this branch (https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1512)

           }
        }
      ) {
        products(first: 2) {
          edges {
            node {
              entityId
              name
              prices {
                price {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<!--
type: tab
title: Response
-->

```json title="Example" lineNumbers
{
  "data": {
    "site": {
      "search": {
        "searchProducts": {
          "products": {
            "edges": [
              {
                "node": {
                  "entityId": 80,
                  "name": "[Sample] Orbit Terrarium - Large",
                  "prices": {
                    "price": {
                      "value": 109
                    }
                  }
                }
              },
              {
                "node": {
                  "entityId": 93,
                  "name": "[Sample] 1 L Le Parfait Jar",
                  "prices": {
                    "price": {
                      "value": 7
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
<!-- type: tab-end -->

> You can sort the products that are returned using the `sort` field. Here is an example request that searches for products using a search term and sorts the products in alphabetical order:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can sort the products that are returned using the `sort` field. Here is an example query that searches for products using a search term and sorts the returned products in alphabetical order:
```
I had to do some mental work to parse this sentence after `that searches`.

            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
<!--
type: tab
title: JSON Response
-->

```JSON title="Example" lineNumbers
{
  "data": {
    "site": {
      "search": {
        "searchProducts": {
          "products": {
            "edges": [
              {
                "node": {
                  "entityId": 93,
                  "name": "[Sample] 1 L Le Parfait Jar",
                  "prices": {
                    "price": {
                      "value": 7
                    }
                  }
                }
              },
              {
                "node": {
                  "entityId": 86,
                  "name": "[Sample] Able Brewing System",
                  "prices": {
                    "price": {
                      "value": 225
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- type: tab-end -->

The `sort` affects only the list of products returned. A merchant's [Product Filtering settings](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Product-Filtering-Settings?language=en_US#setup) determines how facets are sorted. 

<!-- theme: info -->

> > **Note** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> #### Note
```

> The `sort` affects only the list of products returned. A merchant's [Product Filtering settings](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Product-Filtering-Settings?language=en_US#setup) determines how facets are sorted. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `sort` affects only the list of products returned. A merchant's [Product Filtering settings](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Product-Filtering-Settings?language=en_US#setup) determine how facets are sorted. 
```
subject-verb agreement

> > For a list of product fields that `searchTerm` searches, see [Store Search Product Fields](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Store-Search?language=en_US#best-practices).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> For a list of product fields that `searchTerm` searches, see the [Store Search Product Fields](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Store-Search?language=en_US#best-practices) article.
```

                          "productCount": 1,
                          "subCategories": {
                            "edges": []
                          }
                        }
                      },
                      {
                        "node": {
                          "entityId": 21,
                          "isSelected": false,
                          "productCount": 1,
                          "subCategories": {
                            "edges": []
                          }
                        }
                      }
                    ]
                  }
                }
              },
              {
                "node": {
                  "__typename": "OtherSearchFilter",
                  "name": "Other",
                  "isCollapsedByDefault": true,
                  "displayProductCount": true,
                  "freeShipping": null,
                  "isInStock": {
                    "isSelected": false,
                    "productCount": 2
                  },
                  "isFeatured": null
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
<!-- type: tab-end -->

> For a complete list of facets that can be returned, see the [GraphQL Storefront Playground](/graphql-playground).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a complete list of facets that can be returned, see the [GraphQL Storefront Playground](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/graphql-playground).
```
the playground isn't part of the Stoplight docs app, so it needs the whole URL. (this is also makes it open in a new window, which is great IMO for its use case.)

## Put it all together: get products and facets

> To get both products and facets, specify `products` and `filters` as a field in `searchProducts`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get both products and facets, specify both `products` and `filters` fields in `searchProducts`. 
```
subject-verb agreement

            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
```
<!-- type: tab-end -->

If a merchant has not enabled product filtering, you will receive an empty array for the returned facets, though products will still be returned:

<!--
type: tab
title: JSON Response
-->

```JSON title="Example" lineNumbers
{
  "data": {
    "site": {
      "search": {
        "searchProducts": {
          "products": {
            "edges": [
              {
                "node": {
                  "entityId": 93,
                  "name": "[Sample] 1 L Le Parfait Jar",
                  "prices": {
                    "price": {
                      "value": 7
                    }
                  }
                }
              },
              {
                "node": {
                  "entityId": 80,
                  "name": "[Sample] Orbit Terrarium - Large",
                  "prices": {
                    "price": {
                      "value": 109
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            ]
          },
          "filters": {
            "edges": []
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- type: tab-end -->

> ## Related Resources

Author: I have changed the heading in a PR that will merge into this branch (https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1512)

- [GraphQL Storefront API Overview](/api-docs/storefront/graphql/graphql-storefront-api-overview)

> - [GraphQL Storefront Playground](/graphql-playground)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [GraphQL Storefront Playground](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/graphql-playground)
```
the playground isn't part of the Stoplight docs app, so it needs the whole URL. (this is also makes it open in a new window, which is great IMO for its use case.)

    productAttributes:[
      {
        attribute:"Color",
        values:["Black"]
      }
    ],
    isFreeShipping:true,
    isFeatured:true,
    isInStock:true
  }
  ... 
) { 
...
```
These filters affect **both** the products and facets that are returned. For example, filtering by rating returns only products that are within the specified rating range, as well as only facets that have products within the rating range. 

See [GraphQL Playground](/graphql-playground) for descriptions of each filter. 

## How to Get Products

To get products, specify `products` as a field in `searchProducts`. Here is an example request that returns the first two products with a rating between three and five: 

```GraphQL title="Request" lineNumbers
query {
  site {
    search {
      searchProducts(
        filters: {
          rating:{
             minRating:3,
             maxRating:5
           }
        }
      ) {
        products(first: 2) {
          edges {
            node {
              entityId
              name
              prices {
                price {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
&nbsp;
```

Reviewer 2: disregard that backslash --

the comment is that these blocks will nest without a `&nbsp;` between them.

Author: Used new feature to nest while choosing the tab name

                  "prices": {
                    "price": {
                      "value": 109
                    }
                  }
                }
              },
              {
                "node": {
                  "entityId": 93,
                  "name": "[Sample] 1 L Le Parfait Jar",
                  "prices": {
                    "price": {
                      "value": 7
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You can sort the products that are returned using the `sort` field. Here is an example request that searches for products using a search term and sorts the products in alphabetical order:

```GraphQL title="Request" lineNumbers
query {
  site {
    search {
      searchProducts(
        filters: {
          searchTerm: "Sample"
        }
        sort: A_TO_Z
      ) {
        products(first: 5) {
          edges {
            node {
              entityId
              name
              prices {
                price {
                  value
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: and here, `&nbsp;` if nesting not desired.

Author: Used new feature to nest while choosing the tab name

               ... on ProductAttributeSearchFilter {
                 name
                 displayProductCount
                 isCollapsedByDefault
                 attributes {
                   edges {
                     node {
                       value
                       isSelected
                       productCount
                     }
                   }
                 }
               }
               ... on PriceSearchFilter {
                 name
                 isCollapsedByDefault
                 selected {
                   minPrice
                   maxPrice
                 }
               }
               ... on OtherSearchFilter {
                 name
                 displayProductCount
                 isCollapsedByDefault
                 freeShipping {
                   isSelected
                   productCount
                 }
                 isInStock {
                   isSelected
                   productCount
                 }
                 isFeatured {
                   isSelected
                   productCount
                 }
               }
             }
           }
         }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: and here, `&nbsp;` if nesting not desired.

               ... on ProductAttributeSearchFilter {
                 name
                 displayProductCount
                 isCollapsedByDefault
                 attributes {
                   edges {
                     node {
                       value
                       isSelected
                       productCount
                     }
                   }
                 }
               }
               ... on PriceSearchFilter {
                 name
                 isCollapsedByDefault
                 selected {
                   minPrice
                   maxPrice
                 }
               }
               ... on OtherSearchFilter {
                 name
                 displayProductCount
                 isCollapsedByDefault
                 freeShipping {
                   isSelected
                   productCount
                 }
                 isInStock {
                   isSelected
                   productCount
                 }
                 isFeatured {
                   isSelected
                   productCount
                 }
               }
             }
           }
         }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: and here, `&nbsp;` if nesting not desired.

you the picture.

Author: Used new feature to nest while choosing the tab name
